In this lecture we will learn how we can position elements with bootstrap bootstrap uses a grid system
that allows us to easily divide our web page into columns of equal size.
Essentially the bootstrap grid has containers rows and columns.
A container holds a group of rows to create a container.
We assign our female div a class of container fluid the container fluid class is useful because it gives
us a full width container that spans the entire width of the web browser viewport inside of the container
we put rows which we will use to contain horizontal groups of columns to add a row to our Web page.
We will use the development and assign it a class of row.
We will add a div inside of our container and give it a class of row inside of a row we can add columns.
Bootstrap has five grid classes that allow us to define our columns.
The Col class is used to define columns for extra small devices.
These are devices with a screen with less than 576 pixels.
The Col S.M. class is used to define columns for small devices.
These are devices with the screen with greater than or equal to 576 pixels.
The cow M.D class is used to define columns for medium devices.
These are devices with screen with greater than or equal to 768 pixels.
The cow Elgie class is used to define columns for large devices.
These are devices with screen with greater than or equal to 992 pixels.
The Kolle Excel class is used to define columns for extra large devices.
These are devices with screen with greater than or equal to 1200 pixels.
Let's add some columns to our row.
We will add three developments that will be the columns for a row.
The first will have a class value of college for and a background color of light blue.
Assigning the class value of college for means that this element will take up one third of the webpage.
Our second div will also have a class value of college for we will give it a background color of orange
to make it stand out from our first div our third div will have a class value of college for and a background
color of light blue.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see each of the three divs takes up for
twelfths or one third of the web browser with.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
It is possible for us to have up to 12 columns across one row and bootstrap.
We can use a number from 1 to 12 to define the width of our column for example adding two columns with
the width of six will make two equal sized columns on our Web page.
Our first div will have a class value of Col large 6 and a background color of light green.
Our second day will have a class value of college large 6 and a background color of light gray.
Then we will go to the web browser and write our code as you can see.
Each of the divs takes up 6 twelfths or half of the web browser with.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We can also make our columns have unequal widths.
For example we can give one column A with of seven and another column with the 5.
Our second div will have a class value of Col large 5 and a background color of light Corle.
Then we will run our code in the web browser to see the result.
Our first div takes up 7 twelfths of the web browser with the second div takes up 5 twelfths of the
web browser with.
Hopefully these examples we have looked at.
Give you a clearer understanding of how we can use bootstrap in the college classes it provides to position
our elements and specify how much of the web browser with they fill in the next lecture.
We will learn how we can use bootstrap to create menus and UI for our web pages.